---
layout: post
title:  ADFIRWMC - 0. Disclaimers
date:   2018-03-01 15:33:28 -0500
categories: adfirwmc
---

## 0. Disclaimers

### You have to dig
As I built this course, I started realizing that perhaps the reader might not understand everything I am talking about. DFIR is not a field where everyone can know everything. It's just too wide and too deep. Attempting to define every term and provide background on all material would bloat this project beyond scope and diminish the value. If I didn't cover something, you might have to look it up. Searching for information is the crux of this job.

### I tried to keep it cheap
In an effort to limit barriers to education, I tried to limit the examples in this course to native, open source, or readily available free tools. Does that excluding commecial tools limit the completeness of this course? Yes, but this course is about developing your skills and not lining a vendor's pocket. Sadly, you are going to need a Windows 7 or newer system to play with to put a lot of this to use.

### Audience
I think this course is written to provide examples of DFIR techniques for two groups of people:
 1. Folks that have been in Information Security in one capacity or another and are looking to get into more hands on DFIR work.
 2. Others who might find this information useful or interesting.

This should not be the first computer related course you attempt.

### Omissions and Errors
There are two reasons I didn't include something in this course:
1. I didn't know about it. *It happens. Often.*
2. I thought you wouldn't immediately benefit from knowing it. This career field is deep, wide, and almost any fact about how things work can be refuted with an exception. This course is not designed to be extremely comprehensive, just helpful.

Either way, feel free to send me feedback and I will take a look.
### Organization

This course will cover a lot of material and most of it will be shown by example. While that is helpful in some respects, it can leave some topics less explicitly documented and more demonstrated during the course of scenario. Tools and command line utilities are going to be covered in this manner because I am not wasting our collective time documenting a technique AND all of a tool's command line functions when you can easily find that information elsewhere. 

### Tone
This is meant to be informal. I authored 3 university courses last year and one of the consistent items of feedback I received was how well the frankly dry material was conveyed. While that might come across as unprofessional and lacking academic polish, I find it makes the material more digestible and that is point of learning, right?

